I'm start recording alright and we are
recording their toning just as Michael
disappears from the video leave us
whenever I look at a different thing it
automatically does that so I wasn't
trying to look at the document but
anyway um okay I'll do my update real
quick so for the last few weeks I've
been basically porting over the UNIX
implementation to this new generic stuff
that we've been talking about and
working on as like a way to dog food it
and figure out what we need what we
don't need and so that's been going
pretty well it's brought those
implementations with a far along and
there's a really active branch in UNIX
at best that's about halfway there in
terms of moving support along so that's
like most of what I've been up to oh and
I wrote the generics back up as well
which is like I'm not super happy with
the spec actually after talking to Eric
in particular like just a huge amount of
it is very specific to how we'll
implement this in JavaScript and in web
assembly and so I think I might break
off like maybe half of it into a
document that was just about to I don't
think I have the right but that's okay
so yeah I've been thinking a lot about
the generic C stuff which i think is the
artist formerly known as advanced
layouts and I just pasted some new gist
it's probably belongs as either and if
you were turning into a PR or something
but still there's a bunch of to dues in
it so I copied and pasted it a guest in
the last 60 seconds before the call
started I'm sorry which what was this
phone identifying the critical decisions
in I peel the advanced data structure
and
sign oh okay there's a link yeah yeah
yeah sorry I can't paste links in zoom
if you don't even mean I'd be able to
general not like I'm not caught up
because of your massive discussion
overnight well like that discussion sort
of lens was at the document that he's
writing up though the the key part of
this in progress right up is going back
to me determining all of the critical
decisions that need some thought as we
do this advanced data engineering stuff
and trying to give those a couple of
names and consider like how many of
these things are orthogonal to the
others are like you know make progress
that way so I think some of this is
stuff we've actually talked about in
person before and a smattering of times
and I'm just trying to like put names on
it and get it on paper now so the names
I'm gonna suggest are we have the
signaling problem you're referencing
problem and the having the
implementation problem the signaling is
just the question of like when we need
to get any of our advanced data
management stuff in action at all
referencing is the problem of how do we
refer to a particular system for
advanced data manipulation and then
having the implementation is where we
get into like okay what what is was and
how do we hash will Azzam you how do we
refer how do we get other code if
there's a native implementation how do
we connect all of those dots is slightly
different than the referencing problem
just because when we get to concretely
having the implementation then we get I
mean just where the rubber hits the road
is that a neck yeah thank ya yeah yeah I
think like I'd like to change signaling
to like self description because I think
that it's a question of like whether or
not these are self describing or not to
me at least and then
if they're not self-describing if we
should have cut that like what we were
calling him then singling then your
think particularly like skip to the
second point right so just just tune
into Jake sorry this is a little bit of
a distraction but I did I did put some
of the notes from there al a Berlin
meeting into they still had a pull
request in the IP LD repo and I did have
the three these three this is where you
first started outlining those three
problems but they've got different names
there if you scroll down to just search
for signaling actually in the documents
there so that's the history of he just
sent the P just put the PR engine all on
in select check but LD I should go
request number 72 okay so I want to get
into this in a longer discussion but
first I'd like to get Rob's update yeah
hello before we get that though Eric I
know you also made some progress in
collectors but I just want to get a
quick update on that
[Music]
so yeah selectors continue to be fun I'm
still I'm still needing to write a bunch
more about that the bar to clear before
we get like a coherent PR out of it
that's worth review of a bunch of people
is like really quite high so in trying
to to figure out how to make progress on
that you probably saw that I posted a
comment on the PR that I have
outstanding right now which basically
says don't review this anymore there are
more drafts yet and yeah so I'm sitting
here with like five different drafts on
my local host and some of them haven't
actually like reached the escape
velocity where
prepared them to be individually PR and
I kind of don't want to spam people in
that way either so what I'm trying to do
now is create like a systemic review of
all the different directions that have
gotten at least a little exploration
we've gone from like the three older
drafts that are all issues than in the
recent generation since Volker and I
have been working on iterating together
we can flat stack those with our
iteration that was recursive draft
there's been two or three of those which
are like slowly sussing out small issues
the most recent ones that I've been
trying to work on are separating
Explorer versus natural concepts so one
of the little bit like the where clause
in SQL and the other is a bit more like
the Select Clause itself and trying to
figure out how to get that to recurse
correctly and smoothly and pleasingly
has been really tricky there's all sorts
of questions like what if I want to
explicitly match and get a callback on a
node that's in the middle of an
exploration that's going to continue so
trying to figure out how to make that
feel good has been really really big and
tricky so I think most of the problems
there are no identified it's just a
matter of figuring out how to make all
of this look good one of the most recent
good ideas I had somebody else
feed me during some conference times was
maybe trying to hoist the idea of named
matches from the Reg X's and used that
sort of concept for how to indicate a
mat reverses and explore and that might
make some stuff look good still working
on that but I do like name groups in reg
exes we don't have them in JavaScript
but yeah that sounds interesting
yeah so you could so you cancel you can
name something far down in your selector
and then waste that name and reference
it somewhere else for more advanced use
yep
yes I think that might be a cool idea
and we can yeah I don't know that one
still needs a little more iteration a
couple of the more complicated examples
I've been throwing at myself over this
time had also started to make a little
sense with that it turns out I think the
latest draft now has Explorer and mattre
concepts started getting closer to each
other again and maybe they'll be the
same because the matcher is just when
you got a name to it but then instead
there's now a another subsection of the
schema that's all about conditionals for
the case where we want to have an
explorer that like looks at a field
that's a little bit deeper before it
decides whether or not it wants to
explore it which wasn't really
supportive then it be the earlier drafts
so I think that I think that features
gonna make Steven happy for starters
there's a couple of other like
applications I have that it seems to be
in useful for like if you have an array
and you want to recursion to objects in
the array but only one there like name
property is set to the bar or something
like this that's a pretty common case
that I think we would support for and
their new condition of one might get
back yep but so that's now that is still
stuck in the hell of rough drafts on my
computer that need to get advanced to
the point that they can be a real boy
APR so or continues awesome one thing we
didn't talk about it now but we should
like sort of put the thought out there
and think about it long term it's like
how do we calculate and describe the
cost of particular selectors as you go
along we we don't have any of the nice
things that you get out of like sepals
grab you out to do this up front so I
think we'll be able to build things like
that like we can have um one of the
concepts that's turned out to be
important when trying to implement these
it's high cardinality versus low
cardinality matters I forget if I've
described that in our IP oh yeah I think
I did maybe if the other graphs
including
the idea that some things are basically
going to require a full table scan if
you will and other things will allow two
subsets right right so we'll have some
structure for reason about those but
there's some overlap there too with the
collection stuff right because we have
operations that you do on collections
and those are how you perform a lot of
those skip operations when we get into
multi-block stuff
for instance if you do like a range
query like a range subset rather than
like than like a pattern match that's a
different musical scanning like
operation we need that like have that
operation we don't actually have I guess
this is none of the drafts I'm holding
on to right now have range selections
for me like Maxie's they have range
selection for lists by index and that's
kind of easy and obvious how you long
jump into the middle of it yeah well it
is but we also need to describe that
method in the list collection stuff so
that you can do it as a multi-block
collection yeah I think it's like we
need to make sure that were mangles
together and I don't know if like
there's some questions that we need to
answer in the future like if you get a
map it's on order and so it doesn't have
a range thing or are you getting an
array for that matter like so you get a
list and it doesn't have an ability to
do slices on it you can only iterate
over the full thing do we actually
implement the slicing or do we just say
if you're like no you can't write anyway
okay um Rob yeah so I'm still just take
them like putting my legs Jim
that's two weeks of the main thing it's
been integrating the hash map slash
hampt
into j/s types Michael's using so the
the interesting I think I'm entry in
writing on there is trying to keep the
algorithm of a collection completely
abstract it from the way you interface
with it so that we can have the idea
being that we can have these pluggable
algorithms that have a defined way of
interfacing and the algorithms don't
currently don't need to get too deeply
messed up and mixed up in what we what
we're implementing it's to traverse them
so you know just aiming for more plug of
ability and that's leading to some
interesting changes in my original
assumptions and they were the biggest
one being the traversal the
block-by-block traversal originally the
way i built it was you would give it a
way to get new blocks so you'd say
here's how you get new blocks when you
need them and replace that with a a
traversal it just does one block and
then stops and says look I've done this
block but if you want me to continue
then you'll have to give me a new block
identified by this thing and it's up to
you whether I continue or not
so it's this it's just breaking down the
algorithm into how to traverse a block
and then it's up to the the interfacer
to decide how far to keep going and
that's coming up with some interesting
api's I've got a hashmap sled I'm
calling it a hash map I'm just I'm just
done with him to K um I've got a hash
map spec it does say that it's a Hampton
but it doesn't say that in the title and
it's it's nearly complete I'll probably
I would expect up having him today
I nearly finished on Friday I I as I got
into discussion of the designs design
decisions I started second-guessing some
of the choices that were being made but
I think instead of making major
proposals for change I'll just go ahead
with what I've got and flag at the
bottom offered potential future areas
for research so right now what I've got
is very similar to what Jeremy
originally
put in his back so this it's not it
shouldn't be too controversial so
shouldn't be I don't imagine it's gonna
be hugely difficult to get to consensus
on it but there's there's definitely
area of areas for research in how these
things perform and whether some other
decisions we've made a appropriate and I
just don't think we know until we do
that research and I don't think that
research is going to be done any time
soon so let's put that off into the
future and take the best guests now and
then one day I'm sure we'll have people
coming along using these things doing
research and saying hey these decisions
you've made a poor so may as well flag
them now and they're interesting areas
to pursue me into the future so that's
what I'm that's mainly what I'm doing
and the other thing I have been doing is
getting into other data structures I'm
really keen to get on to sorted
collections I've been toying with the
idea of so most interested about in in
red black trees and AVL trees and I
think I think you can come up with an
algorithm that actually does both
because like a red black tree can be an
AVL tree and vice versa there's just got
slightly different rules but the
difficulty with those two collections is
in how they would spend blocks so where
are the block boundaries because if you
did one block or node you'd end up with
lots of tiny little nodes which would
just be garbage so you've been thinking
about the possibility of packing a bunch
of nodes into a single block and then
just having a boundary where you know
you get to a certain layer and then it
has to hop out of the blocks and so what
is the algorithm for deciding how to do
that packing what what how do you decide
where those boundaries are I think
that's that's probably the most
difficult challenge with these
collections otherwise the algorithms I
think are relatively straightforward but
again it's one of those things that
you're making really potentially big
trade-offs and you just don't know where
those trade-offs are good without really
in-depth research so got to draw a line
somewhere about how much risk
I do versus just getting to something
that works but that's that's what I
anticipate doing for in the near future
depending on how Michael stuff evolves
and how much I have to get involved in
that that's me we want to get back to
the discussion about yeah yeah data
structures I think one thing but go
ahead a thing riffing on Ron's
collection before we go back I just
realized that in my brain I get a little
bit cross-wired sometimes thinking about
order preserving collections versus
order randomizing collections versus
sorted collections mm-hmm sometimes I
think that two of those are
interchangeable and they're kind of not
so I tried to deal with some of that in
the in that collections multi-block
collections docked in this Beck repo and
I had a like a 3 a 3 by 2 table and it's
got those three things as the completely
random
there's the ordered black instruction
and ordered by key I think I called them
and they're up there all three are
really useful and I think we can have to
end up with all three and I think
Michaels done some really basic work on
an order by construction one but you
need to have the data upfront to encode
it Jeremy I think is working on
something that the moon was shipped sure
a yeah I guess you've thought about
these words before I just realized that
I have a brain one often to confuse them
yeah that's fair enough yeah I mean you
just you have to pick completely
different structures in different cases
I turn oblique trade-offs for a lot of
them like after I built this array
implementation that you just needs all
up front I realized like if you know
that you need all the data upfront you
can make it really efficient
you know and all the operations that are
incredibly efficient and you don't have
to do scans that Burger so there are
really big advantages to doing things
that way when that's accessible and then
the case of UNIX FS we effectively like
always have to do it that way we're like
a chunked for like a big piece of
chunked binary we stick that into a
multi-block array we always have all the
data up front like you you always reach
hunk the whole data structure you don't
like have a chunk of data that you're
comparing against the rest of them right
like first you chunk it all up and pat
about it and then you compare it so yeah
the other challenge with this is that
most people don't think about those
distinctions they just reach for
something that works for the use case
and I I remember doing this as a sort of
beginner to intermediate Java programmer
with this really good collections
library but without understanding the
distinction between all the types you
just reach for what works and that that
means that and and most most programmers
do and that means that the implementers
of the standard library have this
challenge of making those convenient
types performant in all those ways that
people are using them which is a real
challenge and so you end up with these
one or two collections that everyone's
using for all these different things and
they're trying to optimize them for all
those use cases which is a huge
challenge but it leads to some very
sophisticated algorithms that can do
serve multiple purposes and that's why I
think the Java collections library is a
rich source of these algorithms because
of that challenge but it also points to
the challenges for us as implementers of
essentially an API that people are going
to use when a lot of our users are not
going to care or even want to understand
that the distinction between them so we
have to give them things that just work
and then cross our fingers they're gonna
work for a use case I mean well on a
long enough time line I do you think
that a lot of the decisions get covered
up by higher order API right like even
looking at the the thing that I just did
the woman I just did there's that array
like nobody actually creates that array
directly right now like you have a chunk
binary type the uses that when the set
is big and so like
and it knows that like that is being
when it knows the use case for the sort
of chunked binary pipe and it knows that
it lends itself well in that data
structure right so it sort of covers up
that decision and says like oh you know
for my data structure that's definitely
going to be the right thing so even at
this low level you're already seeing
some some disintermediation between the
implementations of these and the people
actually picking up the water yeah but
the challenge of good API design is
making sure that you know you defer that
process whereby somebody in the future
has to come along and uncover all of
those layers to figure out why their
stuff isn't performing like the IPL tjs
I peeled ipfs which is which really was
that process let's look through all
these layers and see where all the bad
decisions were made and it turns out
that there are ballplayers let's try and
defer that as much as possible
yeah yeah right like I mean we can have
a come and read interface and make it
easy to read all these different data
structures regardless of how they were
created but there are going to be
performance trade-offs and that was read
operation and you're gonna see them in
scale ok so uh let's come back to this
document real quick so one thing I want
to kind of make clear up front
I do see all the work that we're doing
right now I have something of a stopgap
on the way to this being and webassembly
like it is not tenable long term to be
configuring the implementation of every
one of these data structures and having
out this so like to you know referencing
and having the implementation like our
so let's actually get rid of like making
those not offend not a factor like it is
just built in the book system but like
it knows how they go and look these does
assuming that they are like within the
network so yeah like that and that's one
of the reasons why the self-description
mechanism is so important because
eventually the self-description
mechanism will be enough to do
everything else right you won't have to
do you won't have to layer on knowing
out the implementation actually be able
to like the system will just be able to
go out and get them automatically and
you couldn't say that there will only be
one answer to each of these things
eventually but I don't think that
removes them from the design space now
or indeed ever
it just means at some point we pick one
space in the design space and disregard
all others but we're definitely not
there and it doesn't make it right to
pretend they're not a factor in the
meanwhile no no no I mean I think
they're like it is a valid concern that
we are reserving this property and we
need to understand like all of the
implications of preserving the property
right even if it's just at this higher
layer but like one of the reasons why
I'm so right now the identifier is a
string and then we go to web assembly it
just becomes an object that it's
specifically so that it just clubbers
the old implementation eventually that
we thanks impeccably like when we move
on to the web assembly stuff we're like
just not doing any of this but
eventually more and it's a much kind of
cleaner transition that it doesn't
require us to use any more additional
namespaces for anything and that is like
very intentional like that that is know
that we are like trying to get to and
yeah we do need to consider turn
everything else but like you know like
referencing for instance like the
implementations election stuff that is
literally just like the same resolution
system as getting any other Block data
as far as like yeah like that's just
getting any other block data
so right now that word for referencing
refers to not link loading or anything
but is for the where we have some
rendezvous string that says like I am
hams right it's the part where you have
some behavioral description of what's
about to go on yes yes so so okay I I
think I said that incorrectly right now
Eirik you were we're requiring that the
user can figure something upfront that
helps you make that connection right so
if you look at the current like generics
librarian Jas you say oh like you know I
have an implementation of this
particular string that's the happy well
so yeah
but like so I'm trying to say is like so
need to pick a particular implementation
right we're like they're there that is
variable in the system that we have
today right
we're okay I got this string now I need
to figure out how I associate that
string with an implementation and then I
need to go and get the implementation I
need to have it around and have it
configured those are like those are tied
together essentially it's the same
problem than the Jo stack right now but
I can see how they can be different to
you
what do you but eventually we factor
that out like that that is not anything
like that is one implementation of how
to like do this thing that is referenced
in the data structure period and if you
wanted to change that behavior what you
would have to do is literally use a
schema to mutate the data to say no use
miss other implementation but then it
would operate the same as if it they've
gotten that data up front didn't you
switch to being the signaling problem
halfway through that the referencing
problem so so they're all kind of
connected right but um I'm saying say
there is a signal already that we have
the a signaling mechanism of some kind
whatever if you want to change it from
the one that was configured in the
self-description right so itself
describes that I am this thing and if
you wanted to change that then you would
use a schema to chase it but but they're
like it is what I'm saying is that it's
static right the only way to mutate it
is to like mutate the state of the
actual data which means using this key
in the future in the web symbol
like dirt
so here's what I'm saying there is no
API and like for you to say hey here's
like a web assembly data structure for
this particular data thing like that's
no it's part of the self description
period if you want to mutate the self
description fine but like that's the
only way where's like now because we
have to get these implementations
out-of-band
look like entirely like I acted I have
to hand you my JavaScript presentation
of every data structure in order for the
system to work like we we have this
problem the interim but that does get
factored out I don't think these things
get easier to reason about by combining
them or like saying they're not going to
exist later so like okay this is this is
sort of what I'm saying
um if we haven't expect for how to run
these when the sembly functions right
and how to how to do these operations on
these data structures if I have a path
that doesn't even need these data
structure is but goes through multiple
walks you are going to have to have some
kind of resolution mechanism to go out
and get those blocks right and and
traverse your way through the structure
if you support this generics system you
need an implementation of this engine
that we're talking about they can run
the globe assembly functions and nothing
else because everything you would need
in order to go and get all of the data
to do these operations is attached to
the data structure just like any other
data what so even if we have web
assembly which we don't generally
speaking whether somebody's still going
to need tons and tons of interfaces for
like the link loader interface will be
something that network no it doesn't
doing get a liquid at all then it gets I
mean I work access and we run the you
know I know
like no no like like look at the
JavaScript invitation now even the job
is communication now with all these
functions doesn't get a link loader it
doesn't get anyone like it doesn't like
you if it wants more data it has to
basically pass back to the engine a
reference in the data that it wants then
it gets that new data adds in
continuation into the same function so
it's like every function calls atomic to
one decode and that's like it's designed
that way so that we can just pop the web
somebody stuff right in its it's this
it's the same as I was talking that with
the redesigning my hash map stuff is the
instead of I'll give you a way to get
blocks it's okay you tell me you
traverse this single block and if you
need more you have to come back to me
and ask me and that's that's how we
avoid basically passing all of this
extra implementation stuff into the web
assembly function okay so I can't pop my
own stack here what problem we solving
with this like I guess I believe that I
think whether or not there's a link
loader interface that whether somebody
can call and whether or not it returns
continuations is the commentation detail
that I don't super care about either way
we need some specification what those
things are and will inevitably version
that specification itself so are we
saying here
is this just it's the this discussion
about Eric you think that there's these
three distinct problems and Michael
you're saying that they essentially
become the one problem in in the web
assembly utopia yeah is that is that
what this discussion is about I mean yes
and the the the problem that Eric just
referenced which is like we need a
version of that spec but the version of
the engine that you're using web
assembly is also encoded in the data
structure to talk about those questions
so you you basically need an
implementation of that and remember to
do it for sure for that version of that
spec but that's all be all of this is
embedded in that somewhere between
having the implementation and maybe the
referencing part like interpreter
versioning is somewhere down in
the implementation town so this this is
my point if you have an implementation
of the web assembly generics engine and
none of the data structures you can go
and get any of the data structures and
useless without any without the user
without the application developer ever
configuring anything additional but that
does have to know all the problem of
whether or not the application developer
wants that for starters what they if
they don't want generic support then
they would not use a generic library
that is super over simplifying and
skipping above is we want to sometimes
see through these advanced layouts and
other times we don't like sometimes we
want it like take the one path thing and
also don't talk to me about somebody's
guess like a UNIX FS path and sometimes
we actually do want to break out the
abstraction inside and like okay
nitty-gritty with it this still requires
a signaling mechanism which can allow us
to say that we don't want the
fancy-pants behavior to occur
can you repeat that there you're
breaking up in for example one of the
things that we want to do is be able to
use selectors for example on top of
these things
but conditionally sometimes I might want
a selector to say give me this no they
liked what they were doing so they UNIX
efest me to give me this note and
everything underneath of it and it would
be like the file name is what I asked
for and then I just want the whole file
and I send a selector and says give me
all this mm-hmm but something that we
would like to do is also let's say we're
going to be good and cool for video
streaming which means we want like
functionally we basically want the
left-leaning tree of the files internals
first so we might want to send somebody
a selector that says that so then it
would have a bunch of path segments
where it's gonna use the fancy-pants
stuff for the directories and then it
gets that file note it decides not to
use the abstraction anymore and it
explicitly asks for the leftmost little
tree
yeah yeah yeah the clock that's not that
hard um like I do a bunch of stuff them
like right now but I think but that
raises the point though that you still
you wouldn't you can't use webassembly
for that kind of thing if you're doing
it more manually so you need to fall
back to some other solution in which
case you need to have signalling
referencing having the implementation
you come back to those three distinct
problems because you're outside of
you're outside of the webassembly utopia
and you need to then go and fetch some
other piece of code or use some other
piece of code that says i know how to
traverse this particular thing and what
if that particular thing is of a
slightly different version and all those
other things I mean so let's back up
just a little bit one thing that's
important to note is that the way that
the system is built right now is that
you do not perform operations on a path
really like you actually take like one
route block and you perform an operation
on it and then that route block could
end up doing a number of other
operations right within its data
structure so you may end up like
actually doing a giant path lookup
somewhere just to resolve the one thing
you're trying to do and that's like a
that's like a really important
distinction because if what you want to
do is like traverse like a you know
you're saying unix at that to a files
and then do something to that file like
i do that now like in the unix that's
implementation like i say like hey give
me this file and then when i get back is
basically like the note implementation
and then i say oh do operations on this
like you read that a bit - stuff like
that
and if i wanted to replicate it i was
literally like take it take that and say
like hey replication structure like
going parts go replicate all the data
underneath it and then it would actually
not pay any attention to the transcript
they would just like you straight up
like we're looking stuff
so that's all possible now because like
the where the the implementation of the
generic stuff lives is like at a pretty
low layer where you're just trying to
perform an operation on something and if
you're constructing modes of operations
you're actually like constructing them
as multiple calls into that system so
none of this is is not possible um this
sort of like handing off between paths
traversal that sort of layer one and
layer two is a little tricky in
particular we have this issue now where
were using the speech analysis a where
um a because every operation can return
like a target that is a path within
itself you have to interpret that path
really interestingly where you take the
current decoded data and you traverse it
basically at layer 1 until you break out
of that block until you hit another
foreign reference and then you're
actually traversing like at that higher
level because now you're performing
operations back into the generic system
and I mean the implementation works fine
it's not that tricky to implement but
it's a little tricky to talk about and
understand but there's actually
absolutely necessary to get the behavior
that you you want to get when you're
it's a good night because I'm sorry can
I just
reinterpret what you're saying to see if
we can do right saying that that these
concerns go away if you just make it so
that the algorithms can be powerful
enough to serve all these needs so if
for example we needed to instead of
doing a traversal that was no okay the
way I think you're saying is like I
right now with the the hashmap stuff you
can get get perform get operation but
you might want to do something maybe
there's a data structure where get is
significantly more expensive than it has
so you know you could either fall back
to a manual looking through the blocks
to do it has or you just extend the
algorithm so it also has it has opera
you can Dookie Aki's operation to
iterate over keys and an entries
operation or values operation I think
what I think what I'm hearing hearing
you saying is that you don't you still
don't have the problem that Eric is
describing because you just beefed up
the algorithm to perform the tasks that
you need it to perform in all these
cases and if you need to do synching
then that's just a normal blocks plus
plus links synching operation everything
else goes through the algorithm I mean I
guess I had one more question about that
particular use case so um in this like
imaginary data structure like I
mentioned it's like a multi-block array
of all of the data right like to make
this an actually like kind of
complicated replication operation so you
want to go left to right on this on this
big array
how are you discovering the layout and
interpreting that layout in a way that
corresponds to the actual like streaming
read operation because you can describe
the layout in schema and you can even
describe an operation to do a readout of
it that programmatically understands the
block structure but I don't see how you
would write generic code that understood
any arbitrary multi block data structure
and could then and figure out what a
left-to-right read into that looks like
right
yes I think that part of the theory is
operating on the idea that you would
like if you're going to choose to see
the raw blocks presumably it's because
you think you know what you're doing
mm-hmm yeah so um I have thought about
this problem in terms of I want to read
this data out of a file and then I want
to know all the blocks that are talking
so that I can just replicate that but
but this is like assuming that I
actually have some absolutely or that
I'm gonna do the flow'ry operation and
then replicate what it took to do the
operations and that's actually like why
this is one of the reasons why
everything is implemented is like this
giant recursive generator that does
everything you do a full trace because
then you can actually see all the block
lookups so if I say hey go do this do
the trade operation and then like I can
look at the trace and they're here where
all the blocks okay
that's my replication set but I don't
know how you would ya figure out the
replications that without just
performing the entire operation which so
what what you do in Isis is that you
would not send a selector over the wire
to replicate you could send a read
operation over the wire and say give me
the replication set for it
because the remote and already have set
and then they can figure it out quicker
if you did it locally you would end up
just like getting the block so at the
time I mean it would still be relatively
efficient actually to do the operation
vector because like pretty quickly
you're gonna start actually streaming
data out and then by that point you're
probably getting the blocks quicker than
things to me that which way we're
heading for a situation where that's
analogous to a standard library standard
library with collections in it and you
almost never in these download libraries
would dig into the data structures in
layout in memory
lay out underneath them you only deal
with the interfaces and if the interface
has only give you certain powers that's
all you get yep that's just bad luck
some of them you can like in you know
say C++ you could you can sort of I mean
C++ is getting more difficult now but
you could get through memory pointers
and actually start to look inspect the
memory than the way things are laid out
but mostly you just never would do that
because you're either using an
implementation that does what you need
or you don't have all you have to write
your own essentially okay so
conversational tree so I think that um
we you do have a set of important
concerns that I do want to capture about
reserving the key the keys and I want to
figure out like what are methods to
resolve in that as much as we can are
and if those are acceptable or if we
need to try to find some other method of
self description because there are like
I mean I don't want to do this because
there's a another huge set of trade-offs
but we we could literally say like okay
in order to support generics you need a
codec that allows you to encode data
that is transparent to the data model
it's like not in the data model and
that's where that lives right like I
mean if that's our only option that's
our only option
like I don't want to do that but and we
can explore that once we exhausted sort
of like our concerns if we can remedy
them yeah yeah I think we've got a lot
of other space that we can explore
before that yeah yeah I'm just saying
like we have space to explore but like I
think that the self description stuff
like I hope that now we're somewhat
aligned didn't like we do need a method
of self description and it needs
something somewhere and and if it's in
the data if we're getting it out of the
decoder block data and that effectively
means that we end up reserving some kind
of key space I don't know if you saw my
last black message so that I did realize
that we can probably get out of having
to reserve that key space anywhere and
in an object so it would only be at the
root which means that you could very
easily just implement a map generic that
then could store that key very easily
yeah so that means that you can create
map that store that key so so that
doesn't make me feeling about it when
designing schema system the you miss
system can like this is a server does it
compare contrast this schema system can
sit on top of the data model layer and
the nose face at the data model layer
for doing all sorts of these single
stuff traversals and stuff and the
interface of a schema node are the same
they are exactly the same interface so
any code that has been written which is
generic over a node data model is still
generic and correct over node at the
schema layer the only thing that the
schema
layer does this is AG more logical rules
and it will make more things returning
errors but the structure that you're
programming against is completely
identical so and as much as there's any
more rules it's basically the ones that
you asked for it's all intentional so if
we have a collections layer somewhere in
between which does all the surety fun
stuff and contains logic and so on but
it adds a rule like you can't use a key
named foo then that's not transparent to
any of the higher layers anymore right
if I create a construction that's like
data models some advanced layout stuff
and then some schema stuff
this doesn't have the same transparency
throughout there have been weird
properties that I didn't necessarily ask
for that accumulated okay there like now
if I want to put a map at the schema
layer on the top of an advanced
collection that shards it on top of the
data model and some user wants to put a
string called foo in it I have to do to
escaping at some point right or let's
just return an error both of which are
kind of awkward
where does me escaping them I don't know
wherever you add the advanced data
layout stuff
but so now this stuff yeah but in that
case then so don't need a rule in the
schema that says that you can't get that
property except for in one place which
is like the base kind for any other map
you should be able to fit it it's up to
the implementation to decide how to
store it and how to get it out what's it
mean to be deep enough so then
ecosystemic li i don't know how this is
gonna work out because we're going to
have a whole bunch of the callbacks that
can launch into advanced layout load
that are registered somewhere and those
start taking data that has the special
main minute and then they get triggered
and when I go off and make a wild so
that means if somebody else who isn't
using the generic system generated data
the generics is interpreted wrong which
seems ecosystemic li it murderuss like
absolute disaster well no I mean they're
like if you mutate the daler right so
like if you if you mutate the data in a
weird way things will break
like it's just a matter of how they
break the where they break right but
what if my application like it's not
breakage if I wasn't intending to use
this later but now everybody else who's
using these libraries has all of these
things registered already globally this
is you see the problem you know me for
anything in the generic side of things
and you can set the key but look there's
a bug in the implementation there's a
bug in the implementation then that was
like again it's part that's literally
two part of the data that isn't meant to
be consumed with the generic system
let's say then it wouldn't be but it
actually contains the key things like
how is the data being written into and I
guilty for that some library that isn't
using generics okay well then generics
will never but then you really trying to
use generics cuz you're saying that's
what everybody's gonna do right
ecosystem why people have all these
things registered so this would be okay
so this would be problematic it's a new
problematic in the case that someone
encoded data to slash sorry so someone
in a single block would have to encode
data into a slash key that was an object
that had a type property that's what
they would have the length of the
conditional chain their matter is the
fact that the conditional chain exists
is no no but I'm trying to qualify this
so it would have to be a fit of data in
a single block and it would have to be
in this property in a particular way
also like keep in mind that they're if
they put a string there for slash right
now it already breaks only in dag JSON
which is not our data like this is super
important I own and not use dag JSON
they will break index
but they're fine and Nags evil right um
so anyway so it's slash then an object
then a type robbery would be how it
would break yeah and then they would
have to read the data with a library
that's according to Derek's and they
would get in there yeah yeah which is
something we're saying that the
ecosystem will tend to do which sounds
like oh yeah but you just let add lots
of population to a signaling mechanism
so that it's less likely people use it I
mean the thing about already somewhat
transparent like there are a bunch like
there's code all over the place that
will just miss that data in fact like
even if we cleaned up all of our code to
be able to read the data we have like
all because in the ecosystem would have
to and all their pathing stuff would
also have to support it like it's it's
just incredibly problematic to encode
data into that key like in general Jason
and like no no no no there's no I I
already told you like literally all of
the those are all like oh all the codecs
like in India won't fee if you use the
readers at the block level to read the
data rather than decoding the full block
data it's effectively invisible so I
think if you circulate that around as
many other people as possible the
general conception once they figure out
what you're talking about is that this
is a bug like these are to fix I feel
like I'm at a thing here every is this
discussion about replacing the current
underscore type with yes left type yeah
I mean I'm already we should know that
because like yeah I think that we're
less likely to have
into a slash keys and then we are into
understood type so it's and and because
it's already problematic in a number of
ways its I would like to just keep that
as an interface where we reserved things
if we're going to reserve a key inside
of the data which we may not do but like
then you need to propose something else
that is within the data that actually
gets encoded in the block somewhere even
if it's transparent to the block data in
order to do the self description like we
need another option ahem so is how well
we did gonna deal with that in Jason
slash time and Jason we literally have
no other option yeah like if we if we
actually want the blocks to be valid
JSON and not some kind of specialized
format we literally have no other
options rain though I think what this
comes down to and something that maybe
hasn't been sufficiently explicitly
discussed but remember we have that
distinction between like codecs that are
native and actually contain the whole
egg json is an art so we basically have
one that's no we can't no no like you
can't normalize everything to seaboard
like if this is problematic in json it's
probably problematic in other sets as
well like that may well be true but like
seriously it's dank json is not an eye
peeled a native codec no no this is like
if if JSON doesn't work and there's no
way to encode it into valid caissons and
i've got the data model is [ __ ] like
we can't say like the most popular
encoding mechanism in the planet this
has no way to encode the state of this
ballad that's crazy
like they're I mean I already went down
the path of like potentially not
actually using JSON in big JSON and
putting into something else to define
Airy a little bit better and the place
that you end up at is like oh actually
the reason why you want the block of
JSON is it's not like just like
readability because there are a huge
number of API is out there cloud and
otherwise that will just only take it
and like literally some in the binary
data like it gets all of it gets basics
before it anyway so it's actually just
better to send that JSON back and forth
like that's the that's the the main
utility of having it we buy all the
utility and I want to use JSON as much
as pop I am a fan but it is not an IPL d
native codec and it doesn't matter how
much we want the point of the data model
is to define the I'm going to use the C
word rod is to define the cardinality
and the set of things that are
representable and then we can talk about
in general and all of the other products
are like hub and spike thing okay but if
this stuff isn't practically usable then
it's just and just academically pure
then it's effectively useless so like
with the I mean it's it's fine but
legends of one of these problems but if
there isn't a resolution then the
solutions actually can't expect we
already have the case that bytes
don't go smooth to Jake
well did put the ballot they work they
encode back in port respond how do they
get decoded what signals bytes to decode
it's basically for what if I have a
base64 string no no it doesn't just look
at every string it uses the flash
keyword and put the basics before in
there in an object or other so there's
English your boy no there's no by trade
support at the moment but um but there
is space for it is not and I feel the
native codec and it never has been know
like what the what the spec says is that
you have to be able to take these
particular types and code them and
decode them and not have any loss in
between and like you can take any
arbitrary binary data and the degaton
code I can get it back but you can't so
you can construct a data structure that
to the flicks with that though that has
the same shape as the escaping mechanism
the deck Jason uses to determine yes
you can you could end the same problem
with link because link is also encoded
into that and by keyword in an object ya
know and I think if I if we're backing
ourselves into a corner where tags Ybor
is the only option then in trouble yeah
and and they see me like the reason this
is the reason why the IP LD data model
is not really not super specific in fact
it's extremely vague integers strings
strings there is some language in there
that like you need to not [ __ ] up basic
like in 64 there is some language in
there something about that which
actually json is fine with it's actually
javascript that [ __ ] up 64-bit integers
i think like yeah i mean like like
literally like if you don't have a
solution to this problem the solution is
to take this back like and just say like
okay now we're just preserving it in the
spec at the data model layer because
like there has to be some way to
accomplish this in common encoding
formats or else were we there's no point
in even having a data model we just say
everything needs to be in the specific
implementation a dead fee board with
tagging it feels like track codecs can
bidirectionally losslessly map to all
other codecs this is a fundamental truth
of the universe
if one codec ever can express one more
bit of entropy than another codec then
they are not equal and the bigger one
can contain all of the data from the
smaller one but not vice versa
yes okay then like I mean another
solution to this problem is to update
the spec and say the flash is reserved
and then have tags Ybor throw that that
would solve this problem as well
it would reduce it would improve the
cardinality between the implementations
can solve the problem I'm not above
reserving it everywhere I don't care if
that's the only way to resolve it
okay so we're like four miles deep on
this decision tree we're word things
again and like there's this whole other
universe of decision tree where this is
just not an issue that we have and I
want to go I want to give that a
conversation time and we are not okay
like we need a method of self
description for this feature we can get
into the know and the word against but
it seems to involve even chopping into
the part of the tree that's sad and then
ignoring the other part of the tree okay
okay when I look at when I get blocked
there I need to know about the generic
that it needs in order to interpret the
data what if we have some context that
tells us that no it has to be in the
data what if we have that like right
yeah what sorry I need to cut out for a
second
what if we ask that pointers so you want
to extend the link yeah so the point is
that stuff description doesn't
necessarily jump us even all the way to
the problem with doing in at the planar
level is that you you potentially make
the pointer [ __ ] gigantic because
like if you're talking about the
webassembly description like it it's
very large that's why it's nice to have
it just in the root block rather than an
every point of truth it's not just a
string right like it's not gonna be just
a string like that's a stopgap again
like we want to get past that and it's
not just a hex value like it's a fairly
[ __ ] like eventually it's a fairly
complicated
an effect point it breaks the
self-describing data thing quite badly
no well no not necessarily because like
it's the same thing with a CID right
like the CID tells you the codec to
interpret but it's in the pointer to the
data not in the block data itself right
but the block data for dead gears on
does not say hand it's literally as in
the reference to it but again like now
we're back soon literally like either
revving the data model or saying that we
have a new set of codecs to support them
because this is a extension of the link
type that doesn't know there's not
currently there
so I just don't have any I don't they're
to my knowledge there are no hard
problems whatsoever if we say that
signaling is something that we do with
schemas are some other layer like that
here's the problem I need to be able to
link to your data without having the
applications and figured for how to
interpret the data so yes that could
happen in at that point and it can
happen in the block data but it but it
cannot be like an out of an schema that
gets applied so a bunch of this reminds
me of the one of the discussions I had
with somebody mm-hmm where he is asking
about how do we interpret some data
let's say I have a number and it's going
to mean temperature but I don't know
what kind so maybe I'll quote a C or an
F with it right
and then if but then how do I know that
that means temperatures see what if it
means like credits in some monetary
system that I've never heard of before
and they answer that as well then you
look at the bigger context like is this
in a field and a bigger object it's
called temperature well there's probably
temperature right looking at the context
a little bit further out is how the
problem is resolved and this is like you
can think about this for a really really
long time and you'll get into
information theory talent you know but
this is just this is wildly more
complicated than what we have now like
like right now we have like relatively
simple operations you can perform on
target so like even adding at that
pointer to that means that like I either
have to inject the data for how to
interpret it or like as I traversed
through I passed that along saying that
like there's some wider context for the
graph that I've been used to figure out
the characterizations like that's not
reasonable that we have we literally
have to think about data sources -
they're the size of the internet that
are like like linking to other people's
websites like that as the size and scope
that we're looking at we can't rely on
like that much kind of shared space to
figure out what's going on
the thing about conflicts is to be a
jump to like the roots of the universe
and all knowledge right like you can do
this and this actually not is America I
just feel like I need to catch up here
what what where is the schema in this
universe that you're speaking about
where is it located because it still
needs a place of a signal to get there
so the funny thing is I don't care it's
just one layer out from wherever you are
so you keep that hand and you sort of
like navigate the two trees in parallel
so it seems it seems to me that isn't
that basically the same thing is what
Michaels doing where the root block is
the special thing it's it's one layer
out from most of the data you're just
wanting to push it yet another layer out
because if it's in the root block it's
it's a place usually make it a place
that's separate from them I think that
Eric is proposing that the two things
are applied in parallel so you have the
graph of data and you have the schema
for the data and the application is
applying them and I'm like I don't think
like that isn't reasonable that doesn't
give us data structures that stretch the
internet because you're not going to
like have a schema for like that much
data like the data like once you start
traversing you soon know we need to
assume that the data that you parse
through in a path is relatively
unpurchased and we need to resolve just
encode automatically in the engine this
is this is why I like don't like
webassembly stuff we need to be able to
resolve all of this just automatically
for a user because without that then
we're essentially in like you know this
is like like goes package manager versus
JavaScript right we're like go is like
no just install and manage every package
by hands that is the solution of this
problem and in JavaScript you say like
oh I install this thing and it has tons
of dependencies and they're all
conflicting but somehow this should just
run and like we need the case where it
just runs like I need to be able to if
I'm not able to freely link to other
since data
without people who use my
data having to configure some crazy
thing or potentially deal with with the
people there out of that information
people just won't do it
they just won't be linking to other
people's data the way that they link to
other people's website it's not a zero
cost activity that way like
I acknowledge all that and I'm still not
seeing the problem we have two different
well okay we probably have several
different users charts for what links
and traverses you do but one of them is
replication and that needs to work at
the scale of the Internet and your
infinity terabytes without advanced
knowledge yeah yep links throughout the
data model their rights are oh yeah yeah
and as far as linking if if somebody is
writing a web page and so like the
mental context here is I'm reading an
markup document and there's a link in it
to some totally different data structure
which has very not web page semantics
then I probably do want that link to
come with some sort of description of
what's gonna go on over there so anytime
you change context you detach the
context hint right I still don't see the
distinction between pushing that down to
the root block it's the same thing thing
that so then I can give you a schema to
my web page which says by the way I'm
gonna have something that looks like a
link here and that link is going to go
to this other totally different kind of
document and you just keep doing this so
this actually composes all the way up
but at the very top you need to be able
to say when you go down five layers
across five different companies data you
will be encountering all of these things
and he's all of the things that you will
be encountering along the way every time
you're doing one of the hard core jumps
this is like a context jump where you
need a new schema for what you're
jumping into then that information is
locally resolved and held there how this
because they get again this sounds like
it embedding him in the root block but
it a block lot higher reserving
something to embed it but it can be
reserved we can be reserved in a
different way in the higher layer
this is our could use the word reserved
something that there's I think you're
saying I see how you could potentially
apply them so you would you would write
all of this into the link essentially
there's there's a bunch of problems with
it like for one thing you you have like
you have potential mutations that are
deep from higher up in the tree if you
try to perform the same operation from a
leaf node you you get different behavior
than if you forms are available so it's
really like imbalance of the what you
would think of as immutability
guarantees be cut because like when I
have this subtree and when I have this
bigger tree a born operation here
abscess woman gonna pass and here the
here at the same thing I should get the
same thing back but this what would
allow you to mutate that because you'd
be able to apply these schemas like as
you traverse your way down like that's
that's very problematic because you're
talking about like this is just like a
lot of information in context that she's
passed over and then a lot of hazards
and you work your way down and also like
who who wins they're like if I link to
somebody and I say here's a schema and
that and that's deep and it talks about
the schema thief and then when I turn
this into the tree it says something
else to blood like either you're gonna
say the root most always wins they're
the last person to link to it so
effectively the last right but then you
get different behavior if you perform an
operation with different treat context
that yes but that sounds like you're
worrying about solving immutable also
like like if I if I need to see your
data and I get your data and then I want
to link to it
I now need an I don't just need the
information about the data I need an
information about the link that got you
there
so we
like every system that uses this is
going to have to keep around like this
is a large reference it's not just going
to be us the idea if you like a lot more
data you know link practically done too
pretty it's a pretty big departure from
not just how we've done links so far but
also just in how we've constructed all
of our libraries in this I don't know a
single place where in operation on a sub
trees or on a larger tree that just
reverses into that sub tree actually has
variances in behavior encoding changing
coding is your parents no no but that
would that's a different reference like
that's literally not part of the same
tree so if I if I swap out a reference
from raw to see border that's not a
traversable path anymore
like it just it ends or if I if I change
the codec and it's invalid then it
actually literally throws right like
that you can't there are cases where you
can change it and then just make it fail
but there aren't cases where a path with
several layer sieve and a and a shorter
path that are both valid to the same
data structure and performing the same
operation would differ no the path would
actually be it would break the finishing
the codec and any of those links in
between like I mean it wouldn't actually
work right like we're not we can't talk
about preserving behavior that actually
doesn't function
you think I think the codecs are very
much an instance of them yeah but I
don't like based on the codec
information the link we figure out how
to interpret further links deeper in and
that's how it goes when we heap
application a little semantics on it so
if we want to like let's put the codecs
back down and we want to talk about like
how you next best stuff works in
practice right now the I think we still
kind of de facto have this structure
like when a pack comes in from the
Gateway api's it is contextual
information from how that path came in
that we are expecting to resolve it
against the UNIX FS v1 specs right now
and that's just a fact on how everything
works we lost this keep recording when
somebody drops it says that you're
recording in there cuz you're the host
oh yeah it's cloud recordings oh yeah I
feel like this I one of the problems we
taking notes for this is that there's a
lot of context that's in slack from you
and Michael having a long discussion and
I don't feel like I'm capturing the
essence of because I don't feel like I
fully even understand it I think we're
having most of that discussion to be
honest
yeah I don't know Michael and I have
tried to have much of this discussion
before and in person a couple days ago
as well as I'm not sure aid had any
clearer resolution than there are issues
here I'm not convinced that you are even
talking about the same quite the same
thing I think one of the other problems
we have is that Michael just wants to
get stuff done you know and if we keep
on going down schemas and all this other
stuff we end up creating a large stack
of things for ourselves to fix just to
get things done now if that's what's
driving all of his objections right now
but it seems to me that's an overriding
priority and that makes sense if we can
where I'm trying to get is if we can
pivot the signaling design do a choice
between like the de-facto nonsense we
have now versus something explicit that
might be based on schemas but doesn't
matter it just has to be explicit and
like parallel Traverse empowered versus
the in-band thing like we can also carry
on the explicit parallel traversal
powered thing without technically
blockage of schemas and we can get a
bunch of code written with the de facto
signaling stuff as well
so this is this is what I'm trying to
still trying to get my head around what
you're the way you're both described
things that are in your head to me it
seems like what you're talking about is
analogous to in HTML when you reference
things you might say hrs this is a a
href which is that this is another page
that you can load versus an image tag or
a link tag for a CSS thing or a script
tag so the context is in the link go
over there and get this thing but it's
for this purpose so usually interpreting
in this way sorry can you say it again
you just break up yeah I guess that
checks out
where's Michael wants it to be in the
thing that you fetch so it's like the
mime type which is not really anything
but it's close enough to the thing then
a file extension is this is a script
file or a PNG all right so I don't think
self description is bad but I think
having it be built-in and the spec
require that it trigger action would be
insane like imagine if we had a file
system where if something had a dot jpg
extension you are not allowed to open it
with a plain text editor that would not
be something you want to do often but
also it would be truly bizarre if you
couldn't choose to do it right well but
this is not about not being able to make
that choice though because that can be
done in a and an interface level you
couldn't your API can you can give it
some sort of signal like read this thing
raw that's pretty common like in the the
jQuery metaphor that we're sort of
talking about on the JavaScript side
where you interpret the Dom through
these jQuery lens and you get back these
jQuery things that are representative of
this underlying ugliness but you can
always choose to break out of that and
with the royal stuff if you really want
to I think that's the choice of the
library to provide those points where
the user can go down a level but the
default the pop is just it works if if
we were in JQ land
imagine if JQ had some concept of
escaping so like what happens in JQ and
when you want to access a map with the
key of slash for starters it works right
and I'm afraid this proposal of reserved
keys is going to cause that to not be
true and I don't actually understand any
concrete proposal for action here that
doesn't cause that failure
if I have to provide some opt-out
signaling mechanism in order to be safe
for special characters we could build a
system that complex but I don't really
want to write because then we have the
entire need for explicit out-of-band
signaling anyway like it's a requirement
for the system to function correctly in
the presence of some C's of user data
and we made it in like the most likely
to fail on the safe mechanism possible
so given that we need some explicit
signaling let's choose the use case such
that we're safe from our very user data
first and then do the fancy things
second okay okay so your your primary
concern here is that conflict or the the
no escape from the conflict situation
and I'm just so Michael is trying to say
that we if I understand him correctly
that using at a higher level of library
usage that we will be able to do that
conflict resolution there but to me that
is look so it's you can't ignore the
single problem that is a choice of
signaling problem solution that's the
choices de-facto well this gist that's
linked that's where you choose at the
library layer though we're not avoiding
the problem category and yeah like de
facto is just not the best solution so
they are our fallback is that anyway I
feel like we just that is the hard path
through all this but some wise if you're
talking about fat pointers essentially
will provide in that context that's
another thing to build those so just
like you're choosing is that your lesser
of two evils is that what this is I
didn't want to concretely
suggest those they just but what else is
there though it's like go over here and
get this thing it's going to be this
type of thing like what what is that
mechanism that says this is the thing
that you're going to because his
instruction that I'm imagining a lot of
it's a you've got a hash map and the the
values of the hash map are links to
other data structures so like in this
and if you fall in discussion with me
and Tim about the the Lua package
manager' stuff where the hash map would
serve as a really good secondary index
but the secondary Nicks is going to
point to pieces in the primary index and
main themselves and be data structures
so you and then you might have indexes
upon indexes that there's a legitimate
thing to and so you need to jump around
so you need to encourage something that
says when you got over there it's going
to be this type of thing and you either
need to pull that up to the very top
layer of your traversal or you need to
have it in store it in your head that's
only in the values somewhere as a key or
something that there's something so I
didn't want to suggest fact when is
concretely because I think this is any
the thing where it should be like user
salt to taste it's it's so like with
that example of the temperature system
if you have enough local context already
that you pretty damn sure you're talking
about temperature then saying the word
temperature repeatedly or like spelling
out Celsius instead of just C or some
other indicator becomes unnecessary
because there's enough information or
entropy let's come with you this far
don't know if that's a great a great
example because there's so many
situations in in the real world where
that assumption is made and you get to
that end point and you say
okay hang on what were the assumptions
that were made and are they valid and
are there conflicting assumptions that
we brought with us so that we're at this
point with non self describing data and
we have to rely on the assumptions or
the context that we got here but that
context is still not enough in some way
because it's is either self conflicting
or we've lost that or we're just unsure
we don't have the high confidence in it
basically if it were after me I would I
would put Celsius and Fahrenheit with
every temperature measurement just like
I would put you know the currency with
every dollar measurement and the I would
order dates in a very particular way to
be very explicit because US dates drive
me mad
those kinds of things you need a context
isn't enough bi-weekly isn't enough it's
not enough to tell me you were meeting
these bi-weekly because I might show up
twice a week are you American or
temperature measurements or something
right right you label each one of them
as schema dot t-- o-- v / the universal
specification / v 2019 / a a very long
random UUID / temperature / optional /
extent but you know right
such a universal universal qualification
could be constructed but then should we
really use that for every number that
follows no like maybe you attach that
label somewhere a bit higher up and now
it's implied for the rest and why not
both if we require ourselves to do it
super explicitly at every occurrence we
require data to be really big but it's
Michael saying that we're requiring it
or that this is the path we're choosing
for least resistance today I don't know
the answer deputies are you getting the
impression that he's saying this is a
requirement and there's no
alternative even if it is trying to be a
path of least resistance thing I don't I
think that's a false choice like if it
involves like this is just a concept
that I call ASCII [ __ ] because you
shouldn't do it
like hello welcome back the audience off
Michael you're immune
I actually given up entirely I don't
know what happened but like I couldn't
spend any slack messages and I was also
still online I blame my pv6 Real Talk I
have a weird issue where one of my
function on crisis on this particular
Wi-Fi in the house I'm in right now it's
a breath of that I think if it works
enough to break things for the longest
time and then I realized oh yeah this
network that I am in in this house right
now
anyway okay yeah um yeah so one other
thing I'm doing in at the length as a
fat link that I realized would be
problematic the publishing and subscribe
flow gets really [ __ ] complicated
because all of a sudden you can't just
publish a CID here's the publish to see
how the and all the information about it
because you would have to want that
information if initially be updated if
you updated the data structure that's
associated so everybody linking to it
now has to like subscribe to get all of
them and put together and they can't
just subscribe to a CID you have been
described it because never will again
the result state yeah that seems like
table sticks to me so but that would
then that would force your the rigidity
of your migration path all the way up
the chain so if you built a slack and
then every channel had a certain data
structure that linked into
every users feed we tell its own data
structure and that the top-level had
another data structure if you wanted to
migrate to a new version of some data
structure down deeper you would have to
force that migration or way to the top
of the stack you couldn't just do it
down the piece and have it done in that
piece and hand to version one and now
it's ham version 2 because it's faster
and better
you then have to say all the way at the
top yeah we use ham to it and choose
down the bottom me yeah that's something
you do like formal structures no I know
but like you you you're taking
information like this is not information
about the link to the data it is
literally information about data like it
like that structure is not like really
interpretive or functionally without
that data associated you you want it as
part of the content of this like you you
literally want the hatch to change when
you change the implementation okay so I
agree with that and I'm gonna go back to
the three original separations that is
the problem and I definitely want that
in there I agree with that completely
hmm the only thing that I have a stick
in my posterior about is that the sheer
existence of something that looks like
it might be a reference cannot be enough
to change behavior alone because that I
have problems we have to back out of
that in special cases like referencing
should be in-band signaling is different
it's a references in band signal is not
when you're talking about them both the
in band what's the differentiation there
I think signal being in band basically
mean I think that actually does jump to
needing a reserved word and that's why
in but how would you but how are you
around how would you do an invent
reference though without that keyword
that's fine
so reference referencing refers to that
thing where you have a string that's
like experimental /i POV /cam so
actually one yeah but like how do you
differ
that from any other like so how do you
put that how do you put that into the
researcher without a reserve to keep
this my question so whether or not it's
a reserve key is the signalling problem
what that string contains that how we
work with it is the reference that's
just the problem desperate problem I
brought me run out of battery sometimes
not to talk about yeah I also think that
late at work keep using this word
reserved but like reserved means a
couple different things and even the way
that I'm looking at it now it's like
it's not um yeah I think a way to look
at it might be trying to figure out
where concretely like in an
implementation the long jump is going to
be if clause for this and then just I
don't know figure out where that's gonna
be because every time I try to figure
out where that's going to be it's in a
pretty scary place yeah well okay so
we'll learn more about that the more
that we move down the road of just doing
the implementations though and building
on top of it so not to worry about that
part for now I'm just gonna move it to
slash because then at least word we're
putting all of our problems into one
place and then having them spreader
since that links got her fat coroner
Scott mentions I want to read mention
that and like back out from it a little
bit I wanted to just mention that as
like an example of something else that
was at some point proposed I don't
necessarily particularly like that one
mm-hmm like sometimes fat pointers might
be my preferred suggestion like
sometimes you have enough context
because you already have followed a fat
point or sometimes racism mm-hmm can we
I wonder if maybe the most productive
outcome here is to draw a line under
this today and come back to another
meeting later in the week and do it
again because I don't I don't think this
will wait two weeks and and I don't
think that doing it one-on-one is the
greatest answer either so well I I don't
I don't agree that into something that
we have to get resolved right away I
mean everything that were working on is
highly experimental and and highly like
and we learn more the more that we do it
and none of this is stuff that we can't
back up enough later
I mean we can't back out of eight months
from now but we can certainly back out
in the future and I like Barcelona
anyway so my concern is more is not
about getting to a final answer it's
about being talking about precisely the
same thing and I'm just not convinced
that's happening okay also by the way
I'm like I'm not that opposed to just
having an out-of-band like saying the
Codex have to have some way of encoding
out-of-band metadata because we I can do
that in JSON too
we can even just update Dec JSON say
[ __ ] it like I can literally just say
like okay take JSON is actually just an
object with two properties one is called
data when it's called meta and the meta
actually can overlay on the regular data
so then we don't have any reserved
keywords and I just like had all the
meta information that haven't layer that
on the
structure when it comes out of the
decoder right so you can encode that in
real in broad days on it's not a problem
but then you can't then I bailed II
can't read other people's Jason that
wasn't written with IP LD what kind of
nice things well it would if you run it
to the block right because you're not
doing this by hand the the block and the
blocking code and decode is doing it for
you so you just pass a regular [ __ ]
object to the block decoder and you get
back a regular object out of it there's
nothing special so I would actually say
again that you already can treat other
people's data with JSON like you cannot
take a repeater formula in my Docs for
how to use the timeless stack and parse
it with tag JSON because it contains a
map for file systems so it does not
parse as a JSON kind of sucks but
something we could do is have another
JSON codec that doesn't have that same
links and then we can use role right now
well Ani actually already have that so
there's already it just JSON encoder it
doesn't have link types or binary in it
so it's not the deck Jason it's just
Jason yeah right yeah so honestly we
don't have an we don't have enough data
encoded into JPEG JSON that we couldn't
just change it like we don't have a it's
not enabled anywhere in production like
what I know of it's not it's not enabled
in ipfs it's kind of able to make it
there's no Jason in the multi codec
table by the way is any different was
radical using at which implementation
that church okay I don't even know how
the go mutation works like good like it
probably doesn't support by it probably
predates our binary support I also
actually don't know how that works
yeah this there's no there's no non dare
Jason
it's just Jason in the Kodak table sorry
this it's just dag Jason no other Jason
being there it's not in it's not in it's
not a Kodak it's like a multi-format I
mean the multi-format stable and this
I'm searching for Jason there's only one
injury okay maybe I was thinking of
beasts on or something um for amusing
context one of the other things that
Steve alien has proposed at some point
is we should make it its Siebel is Dec
Zeebo NC bull JSON harder in which
everything would be serialized to
roughly double the tree depth we would
just use each alternating layer to treat
depth to say whether or not this thing
is a little bites don't other things
that are otherwise hard to represent
such a codec would be IPL D native in
that we could put any information into
it and it would be bi-directional
lossless that doesn't necessarily mean
it's ergonomic for existing for
interacting with other people's JSON but
those aren't you get their properties oh
[ __ ] no I have an upgrade path it's fine
I can support all this in the same thing
we already break the flat key word and
then JSON so we can just put information
about the version of 'deck JSON into the
slash keyword and then vary behavior
okay sorry anyway I'm not doing that
thing that's people do I thought about
something very similar actually once
when I was trying to figure out some of
the other binary encoding stuff and yeah
it's it's too much like it's easier to
just create an overlay object and then
overlay that they'd on top of it when
you do the interpretation and then you
don't end up with double the size you
know it's just like a tiny bit more size
you end up with likely you end up with
that we would like an array of the
keypad as like the extra space that
you're taking
but that doesn't make it transparently
what with sunglasses too but anyway okay
that's okay yeah um yeah let's plan that
but yeah I mean if he if in order to use
the nurse you have to be able to encode
some other add event information or
other information that's transparent to
the data model that's fine if you
basically just need to be able to store
literally like the generic info
somewhere that is not visible through
the data model decode it would change
the block api's it would violate some of
the separations in the layer that we've
been talking about but if that's what we
have to do it I'm not opposed to it
right